Historical Costumes
Middle ages
The Blue Dress
This blue dress is made out of two pieces: a top and a skirt. The top is tied up
with a ribbon. The skirt is closed with a zipper in the back. This dress is based
on a summer dress from the Middle Ages, although the zipper doesn’t fit in that
theme. I designed and made this dress myself, patterns included.
I completely designed and made this hooded cape myself, including the
patterns. It is a short single layered cape. Only the hood is lined. The cape is
closed with two hooks under the chin and fits with the blue dress.
I had the idea of the dress for already over a year. I already bought fabrics as well
but I never took the time to actually make it. I didn’t really have inspiration for this
dress. Sometimes a design just pops up in my head and I draw it out. That is where I
start from. The cape I made because I thought it would be useful to have one in case
of bad weather. I thought they would have capes in the Middle Ages for that too.
The Red Dress
This dress is inspired on dresses from the Middle Ages. It’s a two-layered
dress with a basic white dress and a pretty red coat dress on top. The red
dress is tied together with a ribbon. It’s supposed to be a winter dress. I
designed this dress myself, but the patterns are based on a basic T-shirt
pattern.
I decided to make this dress as a follow up of the blue dress. Again I don’t have
specific inspiration, the idea just came up in me and I drew it out. I did decide to go
for a different style. This style turns out to be a bit more accurate than the summer
dress.
I’ve made an alteration to the underdress. I first made it to be pulled over the head.
This was very hard to do and took me a lot of effort. After doing some research later
on, I found out that it was quite normal to have side lacing in the dress. I seam-ripped
some of the side open and added holes for a spiral lace up. This makes putting it on
and off a lot easier.
The Kirtle
By making the blue and red dress I got a little more interest in how women
were comfortable in their clothing. I was wondering most about how they
supported their breasts. It was a YouTube video that gave me the answer: they
stiffened the bodies of the dresses with reed.
I found a traditional Austrian dress with a beautiful embroidery on the front in a thrift
shop. That inspired me to make a more accurate dress as well. The dress was way
too big on me so I deconstructed it and made it to my size. I added a panel boned
with reed to stiffen and support. I also added holes in the sides of the top to allow
lacing. The skirt I pleaded down to my size. After that I reattached it to the top. The
original dress had a pocket in the skirt which I removed because of accuracy issues. I
thought it was fun to try to work with boning. It was definitely a challenge but it was a
fun one and I think I succeeded.

Eighteenth century
Eighteenth century summer dress
I came across a video on YouTube showing the way upper class ladies were
dressed in the eighteenth century. I had seen more dresses like that and I was
planning on going to a fantasy festival. That is what made me decide to try and
make an own interpretation of this. This is the first time I attempted to make an
accurate historical costume.
I started out by buying fabrics. I was lucky to get a linen that I could use which was
wider than normal. Normally fabrics are about 150cm wide, this one was in the
curtain section and 220cm wide. That gave me a lot more material at once. I decided
to start off with the shift. This I drafted from a shirt of my own. I had the shift widen
out at the bottom. The sleeves I made with a simple sleeve pattern cut on fold. It was
a simple piece to make but still looks relatively good. The second thing I made was
the first underskirt. This I made by pleading the fabric to my waist measurement and
attaching in to a waistband. The skirt is knee length and closes with a button. After
that I made the bum pad and the pockets. The bum pad was just a roll tapered at the
ends and filled with stuffing. The pockets are two rectangles that I closed in the
middle of the front. I left an opening so I could put stuff in it. Both are tied to a string
of fabric and are tied to the waist separately. Over top of this all is a floor length
underskirt which I made the same way I did the first underskirt. This one is closed
with a tie and has holes at the sides so I can reach into the pockets. All these pieces
are made from that one piece of linen that I found.
The final skirt I made from a light, off white cotton with a small print on it. The
waistband of it is made from an off white cotton. It is a gathered skirt made from two
rectangles. The top of the sides is open so I can reach into the pockets underneath.
The skirt ties at the sides in little bows with straps coming from the waistband.
I made the stomacher from the same fabric as I made the waistband of the final skirt.
The decoration on it are made from the fabric of the skirt. I’ve gathered them into
flowers and they are stitched on with a bead in the middle.
The dress is made from a light blue cotton. I’ve made it in two steps. First I made the
top part of it using a top of mine as a guide for the pattern. I’ve decorated the top with
a fringe of the same fabric and a lace ribbon on top of that. The sleeves of the top are
decorated with a lace trim as well. I’ve used a different piece of lace for this and used
three layers of the lace to create the look I wanted. The skirt is pleaded to fit my waist
and later attached to the top. The ribbon from the top goes all the way to the bottom
of the skirt to create more of a one-piece look.
The model in the pictures is a friend of mine. The corset is not completely accurate
but I haven’t been able to find or make a stays yet. The hat is bought for this
costume.
Nineteenth century
Victorian dress project
I was inspired by a puzzle my dad was making. It was a puzzle with a
nineteenth century American setting with a woman who was wearing a very
pretty outfit. I decide to do some research about it so I can recreate the outfit
as a costume.
The main thing I wanted to find out was which layers go underneath and how wide
the crinoline is supposed to be. I found out the whole outfit has about four to five
layers. I’ve drawn them all out to make sure I knew what the layers consisted off. I
have one layer complete already since I can use that from an earlier project and it
involves the corset. The other layers I need to make myself. These are the shift, split
drawers, crinoline cage, underskirt, corset cover, final skirt and final blouse. I am very
excited about this project since I really want to make something Victorian. This is a
little bit different from the original British dresses from that era which makes it even
more interesting.
Crinoline
I decide to start off with the crinoline, since I really wanted to try to work with
metal boning. I had never done this before, but working with reed made me
more enthusiastic and confident with it. So I bought some boning and other
materials from the internet and started.
My first attempt went quite well. I started with making the waistband and attaching
the vertical supports of twill tape. After that I made the horizontal boning channels by
sewing on twill tape and folding them in half. I sewed across the top to close them off,
leaving one end open to insert the boning. With this attempt I made a big mistake.
The crinoline turned out nice but was way too small. I had envisioned it a lot larger.
So I tried again.
The second time I made wider hoops and also more hoops. Instead of four hoops, I
added six to make the shape more fluent. The waistband I made from the twill tape
now as well since I thought this was a lot easier. I also sewed the ends of the boning
channels together to close the circle before folding the twill tape in half to create the
channels. I left a gap to insert the boning which I closed later by hand. The second
try went much better and I am much happier with the result. The crinoline is now the
size I want it to be and much smoother as well.
First layer
The first layer of the undergarments consists of the chemise and the split
drawers. These garments protect the clothing from body oils and are worn for
modesty. These are light weight garments which are washed often.
I made the chemise and split drawers from a fabric that I found at the thrift store. I
like this fabric very much because of the pattern and the embroidered bow on the
bottom of it. At first I was afraid the fabric wasn’t big enough to make both the
chemise and split drawers from it. Fortunately, I had enough fabric to make both of
the pieces out of it. I tried to make my own pattern from scratch without draping the
fabric but this didn’t work out well. I changed plan and started using patterns that I
found in pattern magazines. I did alter these patterns slightly to make them closer to
the design. The fabric that I’m using is very thin. That made me decide to use a
second layer to make it a little more appropriate.
I have designed the chemise and drawers with a lace trim. I’m going to crochet this
lace myself.
The fabrics I’m using are both made of cotton.

Fantasy Costumes
Magical
White dress

This is a very basic dress that can be paired with a lot of things. I could wear it
by itself or with accessories.
I made this dress without patterns. I used old fabric to figure out how big the
parts should be to fit me. The poof is made with some tulle underneath. The
dress is closed with a blind zipper and a hook in the back.
I started by simply draping some fabric over my body. I wore a tank top underneath
so I could pin the fabric to that. That way I figured out all of the front panels. The back
panel I made by extending the side panels. The top consists of three panels in total:
one for the middle front and two for the sides/back. The top is lined with the same
fabric to give a clean look.
The skirt I designed to be a half circle skirt, but I thought that wasn’t enough. I cut out
a little bit more with the same curves and added that, gathering the top to fit the
bottom of the top. That gave me the look I wanted. I attached the top skirt to the top
layer of the top. For the poof I gathered two layers of tulle to fit the top. This was
sewed on the lining layer of the top.
The arm decorations are simply made by making a band that fits around my arms
and attaching gathered tulle to it. I used al white linen fabric with a bit of a sparkle for
the top, lining, skirt and bands around the arms.
In some pictures I’m wearing the white dress with a dark brown corset and bracelet. I
think it gives a bit of a Steampunk feel to the whole outfit.
I like to wear it this way because I think the dark color of the corset really brings out
the white of the dress.
With the blue corset and the sleeves, I feel like an elf princess of some sort.
Especially the sleeves I think make it very floaty and fairy like.
The blue corsets compliment the dress in a complete different way. It stands out just
enough to be seen but is not breaking up the dress.

Rangers apprentice
This is a costume that I made to be a more practical elf costume. I wanted to
make a hunting costume that would show a different sort of elf. However, when
I was walking around on an event, people started mentioning it as a ranger’s
costume from the book series Ranger’s Apprentice by John Flanagan. When I
read the books again I noticed that their outfit looks a lot like what I made as
described in the book. I made an own interpretation of it but it still looks quite
similar.
The costume consists of a shirt, gilet, pair of pants and cape. I made the shirt from a
cotton thrifted man’s shirt that I deconstructed and made to my size. I removed the
collar and closed the front. I also left one shoulder open and added buttons there so I
could get in and out easily. I’ve also removed some buttons and replaced some
buttons on the sleeves.
The pants are made of a brown linen. I used a pattern that I changed a little bit to be
more accurate. The pattern I used came from a magazine I had at home. I changed
the closing method from a zipper to a lace-up for accuracy.
The gilet is made from two layers of fabric. The upper layer is a heavy velvet fabric
that I had thrifted as a curtain. The lining is a cotton with a flower pattern. I used a
shirt to get the pattern from. The gilet is closed with eyes and hooks. I dyed the
curtain to be green instead of the original yellow.
The cape is made from a heavy fabric that is like wool on the inside and like fleece
on the outside. I used a sweater to make a pattern from the body and the hood.

Fashion
Tops and bottoms
White top
This is a top with a design I don’t see that often. When I was younger I had a
top like this. That inspired me to make it again. I wanted to make dress with a
skirt that is made of the same fabric as the neck band.
I started out with the top. It is a simple top which pattern I made by draping the fabric
over my mannequin. The pattern pieces are all on fold so it was very easy to drape. I
wanted to make it into a dress by attaching a pink skirt to the top. This didn’t look
good however so took it off again and used the top part only. That turned out to be a
very pretty top. The fabrics are all stretch cotton fabrics.
Pleaded skirt
This skirt is inspired of two skirts that I own. I combined the styles of these
skirts and played around with it a bit. In the end I came up with this idea. I also
wanted to try to make a skirt in this style, since I really like the way they look.
I started with making the waistband. I used a pattern that I made with the blue Middle
Ages dress. The skirt is a rectangular skirt that I pleaded to fit the waistband. The
waistband turned out to be too big so I had to fold a bit under and sewed it down. It
doesn’t really disturb the way the skirt falls. The skirt closes up with a zipper beneath
the waistband and two push buttons on the waistband.
Dresses
Blue/green dress
I received a fabric from a friend as a birthday present. It was the fabric that I
used for the top of this dress. I wore this dress during the Christmas season to
ever Christmas celebration I had. Sometimes even with lights underneath the
skirt.
At first I wanted to use the top fabric for the skirt, but when I was trying to drape in
the skirt I wanted it to be I saw the fabric was too structured to be a skirt. It wasn’t
falling the way I wanted it to fall. So I changed plan and used that fabric for the top of
the dress instead. Since it was so structured it was perfect for that. I found the fabric
for the skirt in a fabric store. It caught my attention because of the nice pattern on it
and the suppleness of it. I decided to make a full circle skirt from it.
I draped the pattern pieces of the the top on the mannequin to find out the pattern
pieces. The top four pieces in total: a mid-front, two sides and a back piece. The
zipper is in the side to make putting it on easier. When I had the top part almost

ready I decided that I wanted to have a lining to make it more comfortable. I made
that from some scrap fabric I had at home. I’ve designed the top to have the
scalloped edge on the bottom. This creates a nice border between the top and skirt
but also brings the whole dress together.
The skirt I cut a little too big so it lays a bit funny around the zipper. This is actually a
good thing because with the extra fabric there I can hide the zipper.
I don’t know exactly what material the top fabric is made from. The lining is made
from a cotton fabric and the skirt is a stretch fabric.
Accessories
Pikachu backpack
This is a backpack I made for my sister. She loves Pokémon so much, she
wanted to have a backpack of it for her birthday. I could only find childish ones
in stores, so I decided to make it myself instead.
I started with finding a cheap backpack I could use the back, straps and zippers from.
This makes things a little bit easier. After that I looked for an image of Pikachu that I
could use as a template. I printed this out and cut out all the different pieces. I started
looking for fabric and when I had them, I immediately started cutting out the pieces
and trying to sew them all together. It was quit tricky to find out in which order to sew
everything together. In the end in ended up pretty well. The outside parts are triple
layered. I used two layers of fabric with a layer of plastic in between to make the
backpack waterproof. I might do that different next time. After making the basic
shape I sewed on all of the stuffed limps that I made. I also sewed on the face to
finish it all off. When I gave to my sister she was very happy with it.
All of the fabrics are cotton. Some have stretch, some don’t. I’ve also used plastic
bags for the layer in between to make the backpack more waterproof.
Technical
Product Design
Cutting board
With this project we had to study trends in a group and develop a product
which would fit those trends. My group designed a kids-safe chopping board
for JosephJoseph. This came from the trend that parents want to spend more
time with their children but have less free time to spend. So they want to make
times like cooking more for the family.
At first we had to make all variations on it. My first idea was to use magnets and a
metal plate to help the child to cut. After running some tests, we found out that it
didn’t work. This meant we had to make a step back and go back to designing
instead of developing. We decided to go for a different concept from another group
member. That worked out better but we had to work quick to make up for the time we
lost. In the end it worked out well and we got a good result. We were coached very
well and got good feedback. For the final presentation we had to make a working
model and presentation board. We also had to make a flyer. I kind of helped with
everything but also had the responsibility for the flyer. This turned out very well. I am
very happy with the results of this project.
Snowboard tool

This is a project where we had to design an extra function in an existing
product. The product was a snowboard multi-tool. We were given a brand, in
my case Makita, we had to design for. We were also given a person we had to
design for. I had a 35-year- old woman.
My first idea was to make a compass in it so she could find out. After some
discussions with my teacher and fellow students I decided to tur the cap of the cabin
for the tools into a whistle.
The end result I am very pleased with. The poster is quite simple, but the brand did
not have a lot of details either.
The model on the right side is a 3D-printed model of my design.
This project was again fictional; the brand was not involved.
Tea set
For this project we could choose from different art movements to base our
designs off. One of the movements was the Rococo. After doing some
research about this movement I decided I wanted to give it a go with this. It
turned out I was the only one taking this challenge. We also had to choose
between designing a coffee set and a tea set. Since I don’t drink coffee, it was
an easy choice for me. I also decided to design for the British market with their
tea time tradion. The full tea set would include a cup, a dish, a sugar bowl and
a set of bowls for the scones, clotted cream and jam.
At first we had to make a moodboard. My moodboard was not typical Rococo but
was taken to this time. I really gave an own spin to it which I am very happy with. I
wanted to make a tea set inspired by the Rococo but which could be used today. My
first sketches weren’t that interesting I thought. I decided to go for a too modern and
not Rococo enough set. Later on I changed my mind and decided to work with fabrics
and the possibilities that come with it. I started sewing and playing with it and found
an awesome idea for a bowl. From there I went back to an earlier idea from a cup
that I had. I also already had a sugar bowl ready. The only thing I needed were a dish
and the little bowls. After playing with some ideas I came out with a shape for the
little bowl. I did some more tests for the dish and I found a shape that I thought
brought the whole set together. I am very happy with the result and I am very happy
for really making this project mine.